okay so I'm gonna read a couple of
questions okay and then we're gonna try
to talk about all of them together so
the first thing is can we talk about
fear how does it work I noticed fear
might be related to the subject
absolutely next question is I've dealt
with a feeling of apathy towards new
things and I want to do or try and when
I do start something I quickly lose
interest how do i combat this how do I
tell if I'm truly unhappy or just bored
or used to the way things being the way
they are and then this is kind of the
last question I'll kind of lump together
how do you get past coming up short with
everything in your life I'm 26
dropped out of college at a good
university with one semester left we
decided to start a successful business
and I'm now debating on selling my
shares to my friend and business partner
with nothing lined up after one year
it's the slow season I haven't left my
house in two weeks video games bla bla
bla bla okay so how do you get past
coming up short in life how do you deal
with fear how do you function if you've
developed apathy towards something how
do you tell if you're unhappy or just
bored or used to the way things are so
these are all great questions and
there's just like a common theme here
and I'm gonna have to think about how to
piece this stuff together okay so what
what gets us to do stuff in life like
that's the common question right you
have this like idea of something that
you want to do and like how do you
actually do that thing like you say that
okay like I'm I'm enjoyment doesn't move
me forward I've gotten used to things
I've become apathetic about stuff
I don't want to move forward because I'm
afraid I don't want to move forward
because I regret and the answer is like
yes
yes all of that is true so the first
thing to understand is that moving
forward in life is like going to be an
individual exploration
right that like you guys can come on
stream and like I can try to answer
these questions and I do answer these
questions but that at the end of the day
like you're gonna have to do actual
reflection to figure out what is getting
in your way
so generally speaking so I'm gonna just
address one part of this right because
there are a couple of questions about
you know feeling apathy towards a new
stuff getting bored or getting used to
things so I want you guys to understand
that one of the things that motivates
human beings is the satisfaction of
desires okay so like if I want to eat
like let's say I'm hungry and I want to
eat a hamburger I have a desire
I eat the hamburger and then the desire
from the for the hamburger is satisfied
and once the desire for the hamburger is
satisfied
there's nothing motivating me to like
continue eating like sort of makes like
it sounds kind of simple and duh but
like just think about that for a second
so anytime you're motivated by the
satisfaction of a particular desire that
motivation is not going to last you'll
end up in apathy you'll end up being
bored you'll end up being used to things
if you're looking for like the
satisfaction of a particular desire then
you're gonna end up being bored or
apathetic and it's not a sustainable way
to build your life but the interesting
thing is that's how we do structure our
lives right we tend to think that like
the way for me to move forward is by
like satisfying my desires by striving
for things whether it be a hamburger or
graduating from college or like to get
something external
so there's another kind of motivation
which doesn't come from the external
world so desires come from the external
world the roots of desires are actually
the indriyas or the sense organs and we
can debate about this if you guys want
to but if you think about basically
anything in there I've talked about this
before on streams but if your source of
motivation is the external world once
the external world is satisfied or
unsatisfied your motivation is going to
go away because it's dependent on
something external so fundamentally you
don't get the option to control like
what you're doing because your
motivation comes from the outside so the
key here is to understand that like
motivation can come from the inside as
well not just from the satisfaction of
an like a desire by an external thing
and there are even a lot of things that
we think are going to be like that we
think of as internal like let's say I'm
attracted to someone and I like want
them to be in in my life in some
substantial way like I want them to be
my girlfriend or a boyfriend or whatever
and so I like I'm drawn to that external
thing and
let's say that I asked them out and they
say yes and we enter a relationship and
it's like going great for a while and
like sometimes you get bored of it right
like you become apathetic and that's
because the thing that is going to
sustain a relationship is not the
original desire for the relationship
it's like if I think someone is hot and
I like I want to get with them like once
I get with them then I'm going to get
bored because the satisfy it's the
satisfaction of an external desire the
things that sustain relationships are
different right it's sort of like this
sense of like it's not a specific
external thing it's I mean so I think
the best thing about being in a
committed relationship is that you've
got someone in your corner
that's not like an external thing you
don't like look at someone on the street
and you say like oh man like I want that
person to be in my corner like that's
not how a desire works that's not really
a desire you can say I want to sleep
with that person I want to make out with
that person I want to walk into my
office Christmas party with that person
on my arm those are all desires
but if you want to create sustained
enjoyment or motivation in life it has
to come from within and I don't mean
that in like a yoga hippy kind of like
Oprah sort of way like you have to find
the answer within I mean like literally
there are things that that pull you
forward in life and some of those things
are external and some of those things
are internal because when it comes to
creating something meaningful in life it
requires sacrifice and the problem is
that most desires are not enough to
garner sacrifice
if we talk if we think about Derek and
other people on stream like the reason
that they grow is because they go within
and they do the hard thing they talk
about the hard thing they deal with the
hard feelings and if you guys were
watching today like you'd see Derek do
it like go back and watch the vaad and
you'll see there are lots of moments
where he's at the fork in the road and I
tell him hey man we can go there or we
can not go there
and he chooses to go there so he chooses
to dive in word and so if you're getting
bored in life if you're feeling
apathetic chances are it's because
you're you're living a life of
satisfaction of desires and once you
satisfy a desire it goes away for a
while and then it returns again it
doesn't leave you satisfied forever and
so if you want to find a way to like
move forward in a sustainable way to
find like real motivation that causes
you to - you know sacrifice things and
give up things and do make the harder
choice to close out of the video game
when it's time to go to bed you have to
have a good [ __ ] reason it's not a
desire it's like an internal driver
so in my case like you know I you know
I'm lazy like I've I keep on saying this
on stream I don't think people like
believe me but I'm lazy like I'm really
lazy but I get out of bed every morning
I get out of bed every morning at the
latest possible minute like I should
wake up an hour earlier and work out but
I just I'm [ __ ] lazy so why do I get
out of bed it's because I have an
appointment and someone's gonna show up
at my office and I care about that
person and like because I care about
that person and like Jack I'm genuinely
invested in them I have to get my ass
out of bed I don't care about my son
myself
so I don't wake up and like work out and
stuff because those are the things that
I kind of want for myself but I actually
do care about that person
right so that can motivate so what I
want you guys to understand is like
start by thinking a little bit about you
know what are the things that
okay
okay so start by understanding like what
about you is being motivated by
something external and what about you is
being motivated by something internal
and chances are
for those of you who are apathetic and
bored your motivation is an internal
it's something it's coming from the
external world